How exactly does YouTube work?
Why does a short suddenly
get a lot of views, but then its graph goes flat?
What are the metrics that
decide whether a short will get millions of
views or will it flop? And
finally, should you create shorts and long videos on the same channel,
or will it kill
your channel? The answers to all these questions will be
found in this video. And it's going to be
really fun. Let's begin. So, we know that
views on big YouTube shorts keep coming, keep
coming, and keep coming. But
in your case, as soon as you upload a short, you first get 100
or even thousands of views, but then the view
graph goes completely flat. Let's
understand why this happens. Just over
a year ago, Colin and Sameer
uploaded an interview with Todd Sherman and Rene Ritchie.
If you didn't know, both of them
are product leads at YouTube, which obviously means
they can tell us a lot about the Shorts algorithm.
In one part of the interview, he explained
that as soon as you upload a short, the
algorithm finds a random seed audience for your short.
This seed audience is
basically a small group of viewers
with whom the algorithm
wants to test your short because it doesn't
yet know much about your channel and its content. The word "
random"
is important here because that
seed audience may not be your target audience. If
these viewers do
n't engage well with your short, the YouTube 2 audience will likely receive a few views. The
few views that do come in after a while will mostly come from
other traffic sources.
If, by chance, that seed audience
turns out to be your actual target audience, and
your content is also excellent, then
those viewers will naturally engage well with your short.
This will send
a positive signal to the algorithm, allowing it to find more
viewers who match the seed audience.
If this new group of
viewers also engages positively with your short, they'll likely receive a viewership from other sources.  If it
reacts, then that short will be
pushed and basically this will keep on
repeating. So now you must be understanding
how the Shorts algorithm works exactly.
Almost every Shorts creator has the same question
that if our short was
performing well earlier, then
why was it banned from YouTube? You have to understand that the
algorithms for long videos and short videos are neither the same nor can be the same.
In the case of long form videos,
a view means that the viewer
intentionally chose to
watch that video. However, this does not happen in the case of Shorts
because here we have the
Shorts feed where the
concept of thumbnail cannot exist. This means that if the
algorithm wants to know whether your video
is good or not, then it has only one
way and that is to show your video to an initial group of
random viewers, which
we call the seed audience. So, if the
concept of this algorithm is even a little clear,
then the next question that will come to your mind is
this.  It will be about which
are the important metrics that need to be
shown to people other than the YouTube2 audience. Like, in the case of long videos, there
is CTR. So,
in the case of shorts, what do we need to focus on? The
first metric is called How Many
Chose to Watch. Just like in long videos,
we have CTR. In the short feed,
we have the How Many Chose to View
metric. Also known as Viewed vs. Wiped Away,
this will tell you what percentage of
viewers stayed to watch your short
and how many swiped away before watching. The percentage
of viewers who
stayed to watch the short, of course, only their
views will be counted. Here, you might
also have a question that
how many seconds a viewer has to watch the short for
one view to count. Colin
also asked this question in the interview, in response to which
Tad said that
YouTube3 tries to measure, that is,
if it feels that the viewer has intentionally
stayed to watch the video.  Only then will it
register that view, otherwise it will be
discarded. Then the next question
is what should this viewed versus swiped away
percentage be? You all must be
knowing Paddy Galloway. He is a YouTuber who has
worked with 2019 including
Mr. Beast. So last year
Paddy and his team conducted a study
where they studied more than 5000 shorts
across 33 YouTube's in
different niches. According to his study,
shorts whose view percentage was 60% or
less did
not perform that well. The best performing
shorts which went very viral had a view
percentage on average between 70% and 90%.
Again, this is just a study, so I
recommend you not to obsess over these numbers,
but yes, you can get a rough idea from this that
if your view percentage is 80% or
more, then there is a high
chance that your short will go viral. Even I
personally  I've
seen analytics for all the viral shorts, but their view percentage is
above 75. Now, I know that most
creators watching this video do
n't have a good view-to-swipe ratio. So, let's figure out
how to improve this number. As I said,
in the case of long videos, we have
CTR. Similarly, in the case of shorts, the
equivalent of CTR is "How Many Chose to View."
When we want to improve CTR,
we work on the title and
thumbnail of the video, that is, the first thing that viewers
see. So, if we
talk about shorts, what is the first thing that
viewers see? You're right,
its first 3 seconds. So, it wouldn't be wrong to say
that the first few seconds of your short, that is,
its hook, play the same role as the
title and thumbnail in the case of long videos. Now, in long videos,
we have 30 seconds to
hook the viewer. In shorts,
we have only 3 seconds. And this is
why?  Creating a hook in both these formats
is very different but even long
form and short form need different types of
hooks. The foundation of both is the same and that is
you have to spark curiosity in the mind of the viewer in some
form.
You can create this curiosity with many things
for example depending on the
type of video you are creating you
can say some lines in your hook which will catch
any viewer's mind. Here
a very popular hook is where
X is your target audience. Like the
target audience of my channel is YouTubers so
if I am making a short on any topic then at the
beginning of it I can say 'Utters
stop scrolling' and this will work as a very good
hook. Then there is another line I am
sure you don't know about ABC.
Here simply replace ABC with the thing about
which your video is about.
Example I am sure you don't
know about this youtube0. I am sure you don't know
about this recipe. I am sure you don't know about
this new  Here
's an intriguing visual: Look at this painting shot.
In it, the artist has
poured colors onto the canvas in a very unusual way.
But if you go a few seconds further into the short,
you'll see that the artist has
painted the entire canvas black. Now, if the artist
wanted, he could have painted the canvas completely black normally.
But
by placing the colors in such a special way in the first frame of the short,
curiosity is created in the viewer's mind as to
what this painting is and what is going to be
created next, and so on, which hooks them.
Then, just yesterday, while scrolling through shorts, I
came across this food channel. Its
creator starts almost every short
by throwing ingredients
in the air and catching it. Now, I don't know whether
she does this intentionally or not, but this
is a great way to create a visual hook.
But if you really want your shorts to go viral,
just creating a hook
isn't enough. You also need good audience
retention. When we make long videos,
YouTube wants you to  The content is meant to keep
viewers
on the platform for as long as possible. If the content is
from DateMe and an average viewer is watching it for only 15
minutes, then even if the
retention is poor, the algorithm
will heavily promote that video because it keeps viewers watching for
15 minutes.
It's different in YouTube's case, but here on
YouTube2, it's not going to work. The
best performing shorts have
retention very close to 90%
or even higher if the viewer
watches the short again. But it's
not that the Shorts algorithm does
n't care at all. According to Paddy Galway's
study, shorts whose
AVDF is compared to others with
lower
AVDFs will get 100% retention
and go viral. I'm sure
after hearing all this you're confused about what the
best length is for shorts. Should
we make short shorts of 10 to 15 seconds,
beyond which it's easy to see?  Should you
create long shorts for retention or according to Paddy's study, then my
answer to this would be the same,
make shorts for YouTube that align with your story. There will be
some niches where
quick, instant rewarding shorts work,
whereas in other niches, you can
use storytelling to build a narrative arc
where there is a beginning, middle and end and you
can create longer shorts. So, the
best length for YouTube is that in which
you can perfectly deliver your content.
Okay, at the time of writing the script,
I have posted this in a community that
new video about YouTube4 coming soon and
some comments are coming from people saying
that brother, should we upload both shorts and long videos
on the same channel or not? So
let's cover this topic as well. Should
we upload shorts and long videos on the
same channel? When
YouTube is consistently enjoying itself, then the
algorithm will start showing your long form videos on that viewer's home page.
Now, it is not necessary that the viewers who
watch your shorts  They are
also interested in your long form videos. In fact,
in most cases, those viewers are
not going to watch your long videos because the
attention span of short viewers is also short
and they will not get the quick dopamine hit from full length videos
that they are used to.
And this is a problem because when these
short views do not click on your long videos,
their CTR will be negatively
affected. Or let's say even if they
click on that video, they will
close the video very quickly because they are
not used to it. For example,
look at this channel, Jake Feldman himself has 23 million
subscribers, where his shorts
consistently get millions of views, while his
long videos barely complete 20k views.
Another channel is done
with 26 million subscribers, where
his most popular short has 800 million
views. The most viewed long form
video only has 500k views. You will find
examples of YouTube which have
a split  There is an audience, so what is the
conclusion? A separate channel should be created for shorts.
Right, if I were there, I would
create a separate channel. And my personal
advice would be that you should also create a separate channel.
But this does not mean that it is impossible to grow by
uploading long videos and shorts together on the same channel. There are
many channels
that do this, for example, Daily
Dose of Internet, and they are fairly
successful. You can see that on this channel,
both long videos and shorts
consistently get millions of views. The
secret behind this is simple.
Watching both their shorts and long videos gives the
same feeling. In fact, the
long videos on this channel are like a compilation of shorts,
so they are like a longer
version of the shorts. More importantly, the
length of their long videos is also not that big,
so shorts viewers who
come for instant dopamine also click on this.
And so, if you want to upload
shorts and long videos on the same channel, then
you can learn some lessons from here.  You can take it. Number
one, the content of both your shorts and long videos should be the
same. Number two, the
vibe of both long videos and shorts
should be the same. This means your voice-over
style, editing style, lighting, color and the
overall feel should be the same. And number
three, which is not possible for everyone, but
if you can do it, then it is very good.
Keep the length of long videos short so that the
chances of Shorts viewers clicking on them
increase. Alright,
so today we learned
how the Shorts algorithm works exactly and on
what basis a short goes viral. Now
if you want to know how to
make a viral short step by step, then comment and share
part two. And I will make this video
soon too. And or I will
meet you in some other video. Bye.